Jade and Pey'j are care-taking the children of Hillys orphaned by the DomZ. When Jade runs out of enough Units to run the shield that protects them, she finds a photography job, cataloguing all the species on Hillys for a science museum. She is recruited by the IRIS Network, which suspects that the Alpha Sections are behind planet-wide disappearances. Jade's first target of investigation is a factory under Alpha Section occupation. She discovers evidence of human trafficking being orchestrated by the DomZ under the Alpha Sections' authority. Along the way she rescues Double H, who was kidnapped by the DomZ and subjected to torture. Pey'j is abducted by the DomZ and taken to a slaughterhouse, where he is to be boarded onto a rocket ship set to be launched to a lunar base. After failing to extract Pey'j from the slaughterhouse in time, Jade learns that Pey'j is, in fact, the secret chief of the IRIS Network.

It becomes clear that the Alpha Sections are being possessed and manipulated by the DomZ. Using the Beluga, the ship Pey'j used to travel to Hillys, Jade and Double H go on a mission to the DomZ lunar base. There, Jade finds Pey'j dead, but a 'prodigious energy' within Jade seemingly brings him back to life. After rescuing Pey'j, transmitting her final report, and sparking a revolution, Jade confronts the DomZ High Priest. She learns that her human form is apparently the latest vessel to hide a power stolen from the DomZ centuries ago (Shauni). According to the Priest It was stolen in the hopes that the High Priest, who must use Shauni's energy to survive, would die upon being deprived of it . But he managed to find a substitute energy in the souls of all those kidnapped from Hillys. Using the power, she is able to defeat the DomZ High Priest, though nearly losing control of her soul in the process, and revive and rescue those that have been abducted. In a post credits scene, A DomZ spore grows up on Pey'j's hand back on Hillys, suggesting this may not be the end of the story.